v2.1.2 (2026-06-29)
===================

Bug-fix release. Two user-facing regressions surfaced by the broader
pandas 3 / Copy-on-Write rollout and by Windows users pasting file
paths into the tutorial scripts and Voila app are addressed. No public
API changes.

Fixed
-----

- ``inter.Control.set_inp_aT``: the "manually adjust shift factors"
  control in ``LinViscoFit.ipynb`` silently stopped updating the master
  curve under pandas >= 3. The callback used chained-assignment writes
  (``self.df_aT["log_aT"].iloc[idx] += delta``) which, with Copy-on-Write
  enabled, raise ``ChainedAssignmentError`` and modify a temporary copy
  instead of ``df_aT``. ``master.get_curve`` was then recomputed from
  the unchanged frame and the displayed figure looked identical to
  before the edit. The single-row, multi-row-below-RefT, and
  multi-row-above-RefT branches were all affected. The fix uses
  ``df.loc[…]`` assignments on the original frame and converts the
  delta / index comparisons to scalars so the three branches mutate
  ``df_aT`` as intended.

- ``load.file``: paths copy-pasted on Windows commonly carry surrounding
  artefacts that surface as ``OSError: [Errno 22] Invalid argument``
  rather than the expected ``FileNotFoundError``, because the offending
  characters (``"``, ``'``, leading whitespace, trailing newlines) are
  not legal in Windows file names. Two common sources are the
  Windows Explorer / PowerShell *Copy as path* command (wraps the
  result in double quotes) and copy-paste from terminals or web pages
  (introduces stray newlines/spaces). ``load.file`` now strips
  surrounding whitespace and a matched pair of surrounding single or
  double quotes before opening, accepts ``os.PathLike`` inputs
  explicitly, and re-raises file-not-found errors as
  ``FileNotFoundError`` with the resolved path surfaced so the original
  copy-paste artefact is visible in the message. Forward, back, and
  mixed slashes were already accepted and remain so.

Added
-----

- ``tests/test_inter.py``: new dedicated regression suite for the
  ``inter`` GUI controller. Exercises ``Control.set_inp_aT`` directly
  on a hand-assembled ``Control`` instance (built via
  ``Control.__new__`` with widget attributes stubbed) and asserts that
  ``df_aT`` actually mutates, that the master curve and file-package
  side-effect dict are refreshed, that ``delta == 0`` is a true no-op,
  and that no ``pandas.errors.ChainedAssignmentError`` is emitted by
  any of the three branches.

- ``tests/test_load.py``: 14 new regression tests for ``load.file``
  covering ``pathlib.Path`` and ``str`` inputs, forward / back / mixed
  slashes, surrounding single and double quotes, leading / trailing
  whitespace and newlines, the combined "quoted with whitespace" case,
  and the descriptive ``FileNotFoundError`` raised for missing files.

`Release tag on GitHub <https://github.com/NatLabRockies/pyvisco/releases/tag/v2.1.2>`_
