v2.1.0 (2026-06-03)
===================

Migration of the interactive web application from Binder/Voila to a
dedicated Hugging Face Space (Docker SDK).

Added
-----

- Hugging Face Space hosting the ``LinViscoFit.ipynb`` Voila app at
  https://huggingface.co/spaces/mspringer-nlr/pyvisco-voila. The Space
  is built from a small companion repository
  (`pyvisco-voila <https://huggingface.co/spaces/mspringer-nlr/pyvisco-voila/tree/main>`_)
  that clones ``NatLabRockies/pyvisco`` at build time and serves the
  notebook with Voila on port 7860.

Changed
-------

- ``README.md``: replaced the Binder badge / launch instructions with a
  Hugging Face Space badge and link. Reworded the "Interactive web app"
  bullet accordingly.

- ``docs/index.rst``: web-app link now points to the Hugging Face Space
  instead of Binder.

- ``pyproject.toml``: removed the now-obsolete ``binder*`` entry from
  ``[tool.setuptools.packages.find] exclude``.

Deprecated
----------

- The Binder launch path is no longer supported. Use the Hugging Face
  Space link above instead.

Removed
-------

- ``binder/`` directory (``Dockerfile``, ``environment.yml``,
  ``postBuild``, ``jupyter_config.json``).

- ``.github/workflows/binder.yml`` (Docker Hub image build that fed the
  Binder ``Dockerfile``).

- ``voila.json``: Binder/Voila configuration file. Voila options for the
  Hugging Face Space are passed directly via the Space ``Dockerfile``
  ``CMD``.

`Release tag on GitHub <https://github.com/NatLabRockies/pyvisco/releases/tag/v2.1.0>`_
